# Predicting-Mosfet-Drain-Current
MOSFET is a unipolar device where the current conduction mechanism takes place by the majority of carriers. A MOS transistor consists of four terminals called a drain, gate, source, and substrate. In most cases, the substrate is connected to the ground for N-channel MOSFET and to supply voltage for P-channel MOSFET. The variation in drain current takes place due to the variation in drain-source or gate-source voltage.

While talking about semiconductor device modeling, basically reflects a set of equations that describe current-voltage characteristics, capacitance, and maybe some other parameters depending upon the type of the device. For a MOS transistor, the drive current i.e. the drain current depends upon terminal voltages such as drain and gate voltages. Also, it depends upon geometry such as length, width, and material properties such as mobility, carrier velocity, etc. While developing a model, all these parameters need to be carefully considered.

There are three approaches to developing a model of any semiconductor device.

Physics-based model: They are the most accurate, they are derived by applying device physics, solving equations, etc. As a result, they are difficult to develop, time taking and sometimes they are impossible to develop especially for new devices/materials where the device physics is unknown.
Empirical model: They are based upon curve fitting using a polynomial. Due to their fitting nature, they are less accurate and might not capture the variation of any parameter properly. But they are much easier to develop. Most of the MOSFET models available so far are semi-empirical in nature.
Look-up Table approach: It is another approach for model development where the data points are stored in form of a table. The simulator will pick up the input variable and its corresponding output without solving any equations. But a large number of data points are required. Accuracy is less compared to physics-based models.

Due to the continuous downscaling of the MOS transistor, the device size was drastically reduced. As a result, the MOS transistor characteristics can’t be fully described by conventional device physics and some properties are almost impossible to model or a huge computational resource is required. in this situation, the data -drive machine learning-based models are gaining the attention of researchers. In this approach in-depth knowledge of devices, and physics is not required. The training data is collected from real device measurement results or may be from a mixture of the real device and commercial device simulator (TCAD). The dataset contains feature variables such as gate and drain voltage, width, length, and other parameters. The target/output variable is current, charge, capacitance, etc. After proper scaling, training is performed and then the trained model is tested with a new set of input variables. This approach reduces the gap between physics-based model development and development time with accuracy.

In this work, a simple neural network-based MOSFET model development framework along with code is discussed.
